---
layout: branch
title: 4 Steps To Creating Zen In Your Business Nobody Talks About
permalink: blog/4-steps-creating-zen-in-your-business/
featured: 2015-08-12-zen/feature-zen.jpg
social: 2015-08-12-zen/social-zen.jpg
---
What would you do differently this week if you could shake all your online business fears?

Yep, even that one that came immediately to your mind.

There’s probably a lot of things you’d do differently.

Perhaps you’d have the confidence to do something you’ve been too afraid to do, that you know would move your business forward, but just can’t bring yourself to do.

Or maybe you’d be better rested for the day, because you weren’t worrying about a particular problem all night, unable to switch off from work-mode.

Today, we’re going look at how we can take away business stresses, concerns, overwhelm, and fears. We’re going to find the Zen in your online business.
<!--more-->
## What Zen and your business don’t (yet) have in common

**First of all, what is Zen exactly?**

Zen means “the teaching of the mind”. It suggests that "to see a gold lion is to see there is no lion, only gold”. Zen practice helps bring clarity and calm, by making you less troubled by your waves of thought as they come.

**Okay. Second, what’s your business?**

Business is "the practice of making a living by engaging in commerce”. While simple enough in writing, the reality is often much more complex. For example:

It can be fantastically easy to become overwhelmed with the range of things you ‘must’ know how to do in order to run your online business successfully. You might ask yourself, *"How does everyone else manage it?”*

It’s all too easy to panic when you think of all the service providers and widgets you ‘need' in place to get momentum with that business. *“How does everyone else afford it?”*

It’s natural to become frozen in place when you think of all the things you ‘must’ uncover and put into motion to feed your family. *“What if I miss something critical?”*

Or to psyche yourself out thinking about the idea of pitching, or public speaking, or picking up the phone and calling prospects. *“What if they see me as some fraud?”*

All of these things are head games.

Life is mostly a head game, to be fair.

Here’s some key points you can take action on today (and I know you have a lot to do today) to defeat these roadblocks, and find Zen in your online business:

## 1. Your competitors feel the same way.

They may be bigger than you.

They may have been in the industry longer than you.

They may have been featured in popular industry magazines.

Doesn’t matter. They’re still quietly freaking out in their heads too. They just do a good a job of hiding it, like you do.

* **What’s holding you back?** The fact that you see your ability as an online business owner to be inferior to that of your peers or competitors. If this is true, take the steps necessary to remedy it. For most people, these concerns are much larger in their heads than they are in reality.
* **How can you break that cycle?** Remember that your competitors may well be looking at you and thinking the exact same things about themselves. Everyone’s internal voice is negative - you don’t have to listen. 

## 2. People have succeeded without doing any of those things you’re worrying about.

If you want to pursue an activity that could benefit your online business, that’s great.

But people built businesses online before the shiny tool you think you need existed, or before that course you might enroll on existed, or before that scary competitor got in the game.

Definitely invest in your business, and definitely invest in your development. But remember that it’s likely a positive advancement, not a critical necessity.

* **What’s holding you back?** The fear that you’ve missed something critical to your success, and that there may be factors you’ve yet to discover that could end your online business.
* **How can you break that cycle?** Remember that, if you care enough about your business’ success, that you’re always going to be growing. You’re always going to be investing in your development through products, courses, consultants and events. You’re taking them to give you an advantage, not to avoid a disadvantage.

## 3. Know what truly matters.

It’s not a hip idea, nor does it make an exciting headline you’ll click through to learn more about on Twitter. But it holds the key to differentiation: know what truly matters for your online business.

If you can remember what truly matters, then spend 95% of your time doing that, and 5% doing everything else.

That way, even if your online business isn’t necessarily “feature complete”, you’ll have one that does one thing great, rather than any things with mediocrity.

* **What’s holding you back?** It could be comparing your start with somebody else’s middle. It could be thinking that everything is of equal importance. It could be a lack of awareness about what makes your online business unique.
* **How can you break that cycle?** Remember everyone has to start, and there’s no shame in being in an earlier state than others. Discover what is most important for you to spend your time on, and don’t scramble from task to task like a headless chicken.

## 4. If you do what everyone else does, you’ll be like everyone else

What makes you different?

Why would anyone choose your online business over your competitors if you’re exactly the same?

Don’t worry about what they’re doing. Do what you do, and do it better than everyone else.

Don’t like public speaking? Don’t worry about it. Don’t want to exit? Then run your business until you’re old and silver. There’s no problem with that!

* **What’s holding you back?** You may be finding yourself unintentionally idolizing your peers, thinking that because they’re all doing something, that it must be the only path to success. Or perhaps you’re convinced that a weakness of yours will be your undoing.
* **How can you break that cycle?** Remember that your peers are all just trying to figure it all out too. They may have success by some means, but that doesn’t make it the only means. Play to your strengths, and consider hiring or outsourcing your weaknesses.

## Action Steps

I’m no Zen master. I’m not a Buddhist. I’m not calm all the time, either.

But it’s worth remembering that the stresses, concerns and fears you have with your online business will be gone soon. Just like the fears you had two years ago.

Here are some steps you can take today to have a calmer business life, and maybe even a more enjoyable one:

1. **Don’t listen to the negative voices in your head.** No amount of zeros in their bottom line, or successful interviews, or conference talks are going to give you confidence in yourself. You have to find that from within.
2. **Don’t confuse positive investment with critical behavior.** Do things to help your business grow. Go on the course. Get the tool, if it’ll move you forwards. Just don’t confuse each and every decision with a mission-critical one.
3. **Spend 95% of your time on what truly matters.** Many of your competitors will be floundering around trying to figure out what to do. Instead, focus on doing what matters.
4. **Respect the competition, then continue with your vision.** You didn’t start your online business to be identical to everyone else. You had a vision. Respect what your competition is doing, but respect your vision more.

## Conclusion

If you take any one of those 4 action steps seriously, you may just find yourself operating with greater efficiency, with greater effectiveness, and with greater peace.

Zen encourages meditation - take a minute to reflect on how far you’ve come, then apply an action step. See where it takes you.

Better yet, share with us which action step you think you need to take the most in the private comment form below!

Do you know someone who’s in business that needs to quit stressing so much? Forward this on to them. You might just make their day.
